# Connect-Four--Java
This project was my second project after UNO. I completed this project during my Junior year at the end of my AP CSA java course. This app consists of a text- based connect four that allows the user to input X's and O's while playing against the computer. Although this project was not much of a difficult task, it was a good little program to create after learning my first pieces of java. 

Due to the events of hurricane IDA, I was out of school for 2 months. During these months, I learned tons of Java through Code HS and pursued to complete my course early. As I was learning Object Oriented Programming for the very first time, I wanted to make a project that would take an object such as a 2D array, and change it based on user input and interaction. I thought to myself, "Why not make Connect Four?". I started working on this project during the IDA break and eventually finished it when I returned to class in October. Although it was very small, it was a fun, easy project to wrap up my java course!

The logic of this app was pretty straight forward. All I had to do was have one player and one computer that take turns throughout the game. The player would be assigned to X's and the Computer would be assigned to O's. I would have to recall this code continously via a while loop until the game was ended. The game could only end if the computer or player won. In winning, the computer or player had to have 4 of their pieces in a row vertically, horizontally or diagonally. 

Now, let's get a little mor in depth with the code!

To start off my program, I had the user enter their name. After that, the program executed the while loop of the game. To start the loop, I made a printBoard function that created a 2D array, iterating through it and setting it's texts to - . This showed the user that the 2D array was empty and the grid was ready to be played on. Next, I asked the user what column they wanted to place their piece on. Because the pieces slide straight down in connect four, I did not have to ask the user what row they wanted to place it in, as the piece would travel down to the lowest available row in that column. In this method, I iterated through the row of the user's selected column from the ground up. The first empty space I found was then filled and the UI was updated. I did the same method in the background with the computer but used a randomizer class to decide which column the piece would be placed on.

After every turn, I called checkVertical, checkHorizontal and checkDiagonals to see if a player had won the game. The checkVertical and checkHorizontal consisted in my iterating through a 2D array and just switching the nested loops to resemble different search methods. I then checked for 4 streaks of the same piece within this iteration to check for a win. The diagonals were a bit tricky. I realized that there were several different diagonals to check on the board. I also realized that the dimensions of the board were constant. So I just made a method that checked each diagonal, one by one. If at any time a streak had been found, we would break the execution and reveal the winner!

Overall, connect four was a neat little project. I definetly could have gone bigger, but I wanted to get finished with Java and pursure further passions in Unity and XCode programming! 


